Fixes #2419 - improve PSModulePath docs (#5772)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/5.1/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Environment_Variables.md

process by making it easy to view and change environment variables.

Environment variables, unlike other types of variables in PowerShell, are
inherited by child processes, such as local background jobs and the sessions in
which module members run. This makes environment variables well suited to
storing values that are needed in both parent and child processes.

## Changing environment variables

On Windows, environment variables can be defined in three scopes:

- Machine (or System) scope
- User scope
- Process scope

The _Process_ scope contains the environment variables available in the current
process, or PowerShell session. This list of variables is inherited from the
parent process and is constructed from the variables in the _Machine_ and
_User_ scopes.

When you change environment variables in PowerShell, the change affects only
the current session. This behavior resembles the behavior of the `Set` command
in the Windows Command Shell and the `Setenv` command in UNIX-based
environments. To change values in the Machine or User scopes, you must use the
methods of the **System.Environment** class.

> To make changes to variable, must also have permission. If you try to change a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make changes to Machine scope variables, you must also have permission. If you try to change a
```

Author: Fixed

location of the Windows installation directory. Programs can query the value of
this variable to determine where Windows operating system files are located.

PowerShell can access and manage environment variables in any of the supported
operating system platforms. The PowerShell environment provider simplifies this

> process by making it easy to view and change the environment variables.

Author: fixed

> Unlike other types of variables in PowerShell, environment variables and their

Author: fixed

> values are inherited by child sessions, such as local background jobs and the

Author: fixed

sessions in which module members run. This makes environment variables well

> suited to storing values that are needed in both parent and child sessions.

Author: fixed

Each environment variable is represented by an instance of the

> **System.Collections.DictionaryEntry** class. In each **DictionaryEntry**

Author: Moved this to the Provider section

to display the methods and properties of all the objects in the `Env:` drive,
type:

```powershell
Get-Item -Path Env:* | Get-Member
```

## Environment variables that store preferences

PowerShell features can use environment variables to store user preferences.
These variables work like preference variables, but they are inherited by child
sessions of the sessions in which they are created. For more information about
preference variables, see [about_preference_variables](about_Preference_Variables.md).

The environment variables that store preferences include:

- PSExecutionPolicyPreference

  Stores the execution policy set for the current session. This environment
  variable exists only when you set an execution policy for a single session.
  You can do this in two different ways.

  - Start a session from the command line using the **ExecutionPolicy**
    parameter to set the execution policy for the session.

  - Use the `Set-ExecutionPolicy` cmdlet. Use the Scope parameter with
    a value of "Process".

    For more information, see [about_Execution_Policies](about_Execution_Policies.md).

- PSModuleAnalysisCachePath

>   PowerShell provides control over the file that is used to cache data about a

Author: fixed

  module, such as the commands it exports. The cache is read at startup while
  searching for a command and is written on a background thread sometime after
  a module is imported.

  Default location of the cache is:

  - `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell`

  The default filename for the cache is `ModuleAnalysisCache`. When you have

>   multiple instances of PowerShell installed, the filename will include a

Author: Fixed

  hexadecimal suffix so that there is a a unique filename per installation.

  To change the default location of the cache, set the environment variable

>   before starting PowerShell. Changes to this environment variable only affect

Reviewer: I think the note about the effect of env vars should be higher up when first talking about env vars.  The key thing is:

1. changes to env vars affects the current process and any new child processes
2. changes to env vars at machine or user scope (Windows only) affects new processes

Author: Moved the "Changing" section to the top of the article

>   child processes. The value should name a full path (including filename)

Reviewer: It might be worth mentioning, because I've seen this reported a few times, is if command discovery isn't working correctly (like intellisense shows commands that don't exist), then one can simply delete the cache file and it'll be recreated on next powershell startup

Author: Added

    This is the location where the Windows management modules are installed.

  - User-installed modules: These are modules installed by the user.
    `Install-Module` has a **Scope** parameter that allows you to specify
    whether the module is installed for the current user or for all users. For
    more information, see [Install-Module](../../PowerShellGet/Install-Module.md).

    - On Windows, the location of the user-specific **CurrentUser** scope is
      the `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Modules` folder. The location of the
      **AllUsers** scope is `$env:ProgramFiles\PowerShell\Modules`.

  In addition, setup programs that install modules in other directories, such
  as the Program Files directory, can append their locations to the value of
  `$env:PSModulePath`.

  For more information, see [about_PSModulePath](about_PSModulePath.md).

## Managing environment variables

Environment variables can be access and changed using several different methods
in PowerShell.

- You can use the Environment provider drive.
- You can use the Item cmdlets to get or set values.
- You can use the .NET **System.Environment** class.
- On Windows, you can also use the System Control Panel.

> 

Reviewer: Env var prefix like `$env:psmodulepath` is technically different than `env:\psmodulepath` although the result is the same, but should be called out as a different method

- PSModuleAnalysisCachePath

  PowerShell provides control over the file that is used to cache data about
  modules and their cmdlets. The cache is read at startup while searching for a
  command and is written on a background thread sometime after a module is
  imported.

  Default location of the cache is:

>   - `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell`

Reviewer: Since this doc applies to both Windows and Linux, you should include the default Linux/macOS path as well

Author: I have this in the v6+ versions of the article:

  - Windows PowerShell 5.1: `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell`
  - PowerShell 6.0 and higher: `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Microsoft\PowerShell`
  - Non-Windows default: `~/.cache/powershell`
